We'll come back.
We have our original length list and we just found out that our linked list is actually a singly linked
list but we want to convert this now into a doubly linked list.
So that we add that X sure feature of an extra pointer.
How will we go about doing that.
Well let's go line by line and luckily for us it's not that difficult.
As you can imagine if we go line by line and go into the constructor the one extra piece of information
that we need to add now is that we also have a previous pointer now and this previous pointer will be
no to begin with.
So the head is going to point to no.
And everything else stays the same.
But what happens when we append something well.
Once again we're going to add a new note that also has previous property a new property that points
to nil and we're still going to have the tail dot next equal to the new node.
And this doesn't change but the only line that changes is that we need to add a previous property because
remember append is adding at the end of the list.
We want to add the previous property to equal whatever was at the end of the original list before we
did the update.
So all we need to do is say new node that previous is going to equal this dot till the very last item
before it gets updated over here to the new node.
Let's see if append works the way we have it.
I'm going to scroll down here and just comment out all of this code except for the first two lines.
Append five and append 16.
If I click right here I get a doubly linked list that has a head of value 10.
OK that points to next which is the next node we see value 5 that points to an object that we don't
really know yet and also points to a previous object.
And within this 10 node we see that previous points to know because there's nothing before the head.
If we look at that tail we see that the tail now has a value of 16 next is not because it is the tail
it's the end but the previous node is also pointing to this node 5 and the doubly linked list has a
length of three.
Very cool.
So all we've added is this previous reference.
Let's do the same for Prebend.
That is to add at the beginning of the list.
We scroll up to prebend we once again want to add a new property which will be the previous that will
equal to know for now.
And we want to keep everything the same way we want to make sure that the new node dot next is going
to point to whatever the head is currently.
But we also want to say that this Dot had dot previous the previous should now point to our new node
because it's no longer the head.
And then we can update the had to be our node and this dot lenth is going to increase and we're going
to return this.
If I click run here remember where prepending 1.
So we're adding 1 to the beginning of the list.
We see that are doubly linked list now has a head with the one value that's pointing to the next value
which is the 10 and our tail is still the same tale is 16.
That points to the value of five.
So if we print last year again one 10 5:16 as we expected.
What about the insert.
How would that work.
If we go to insert method here and go line by line this first part everything's OK.
We have a new node.
So again we'll add a previous property that will be know for now we're still grabbing the leader and
traversing the index.
But now we have to do things a bit differently.
We need to grab the leader as well as the follower.
So if you wanted to add ninety nine here we need to grab a reference to 10 the leader and also the follower
5.
So I'm going to change the name of leader Don next.
That is 5 over here to say follower.
So the leader of our new node and the follower of our you know now follower is now going to be the five
we're going to update leader done next.
So that is five or leader done next which is what comes after 10 to be the new node are ninety nine
and then new NO done next is going to equal the follower.
That is five.
But we also want to make sure that our new node got previous is going to equal the leader.
That is the 10 and also make sure that the follower that is the five has a previous value that points
to our new node.
So if I print list here with our insert I've inserted the value would just to check that everything
is working.
I'm going to console Daut log this which is our link list if I click run I see that our linked list
has a lenth of 5 and I'm going to change just to index of one so we can see it in our output here.
And when I say index of one by click run I see that head is now value of one the next and the item is
value of 99.
As we expected and it has both next and previous properties and that's not too bad right as long as
you visualize the steps and draw your diagrams.
All we're doing is saying add the new node or get the leader to point to then you note then you know
to now point to the leader and the new node should point after it next to the follower and the follower
is now going to point back to the new node.
You might have to go through this in your hat or dried out on a paper but it should make sense now and
at the end of the day singly linked lists and doubly linked lists aren't that different as you see.
All we're doing is just managing another pointer that points to the previous note.
I'm going to leave the remove linked list up to you to implement your own.
And the doubly linked list as you've learned up until now it should be very different from what we did
in the insert.
But I hope you have an understanding of how link lists work.
Now interviewers love asking questions of all linked lists because it requires a lot of information
to be held in your head and as you can see they can be really complicated if you're not the type of
person that thinks clearly through their steps and understand what they're doing.
One by one and the steps are really important.
That's why interviewers love this question because they really get to see how you think.
And with link lists as longus do you draw out why you're doing step by step it becomes really really
easy.
As long as you don't just start coding it out from memory.
Just draw the steps.
Think about your steps and the interviewer will be impressed.
I'll see in the next one.